Piloncillo Chocolate Chip Cookies

https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1025308-piloncillo-chocolate-chip-cookies

Yield: About 17 cookies

INGREDIENTS

* 6 oz/170 grams piloncillo
* 1/3 cup/67 grams granulated sugar
* 1/2 cup/113 grams unsalted butter (1 stick), melted
* 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt (such as Diamond Crystal)
  or 1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt 
* 1 large egg
* 2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract or vanilla paste
* 1 2/3 cups/211 grams all-purpose flour
* 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
* 1 heaping cup/170 grams bittersweet chocolate chips or chunks
  (preferably 72 percent cacao or higher) 
* Flaky sea salt or kosher salt

PREPARATION

Step 1

With racks in the upper and lower thirds, heat oven to 350 degrees. Grate
piloncillo using the large holes of a box grater. The grated piloncillo
won’t look or feel like dark brown sugar; it will more closely resemble
grated hard cheese and will have crumbly, irregular shapes with some
larger split pea-size pieces. (The larger pieces will taste like and have
the texture of broken bits of toffee inside the baked cookie.)

Step 2

Whisk grated piloncillo, granulated sugar, butter and kosher salt in a
large bowl until evenly mixed. Vigorously whisk in egg and vanilla until
mixture lightens in color and becomes almost ribbony but with undissolved
pieces of piloncillo, about 1 minute. This step is very important and will
give your cookie a shiny top, like a brownie, that will crisp as it bakes.

Step 3

Add flour and baking soda and, using a wooden spoon or rubber spatula, mix
until dough comes together and no floury bits remain, about 30
seconds. Stir in chocolate until evenly distributed. Dough will be soft
and may be warmer than room temperature. Refrigerate for 30 minutes (or up
to 5 days; see Tip) to enhance flavor and allow the dough to firm up.

Step 4

Portion out balls of dough (about 2 generous tablespoons each) and space
about 2 inches apart on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets. (You can also
form dough into table tennis-size balls with your hands.) Do not flatten;
cookies will spread as they bake. Sprinkle each ball with flaky or kosher
salt.

Step 5

Bake cookies, 2 sheets at a time, switching the pans halfway through,
until edges are brown and firm but centers are still soft, 16 to 18
minutes. Let cool on baking sheets for 10 minutes, then transfer to a wire
rack and let cool completely.

TIP

Cookie dough can be made up to 5 days ahead; store in an airtight
container and chill. Or portion into balls, cover with plastic and freeze
up to 3 months. Let dough come to room temperature before baking.


Chocolate Chip Cookies

https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1015819-chocolate-chip-cookies

Yield: 1 1/2 dozen 5-inch cookies

Ingredients

* 2 cups minus 2 tablespoons cake flour (8 1/2 ounces)
* 1 2/3 cups bread flour (8 1/2 ounces)
* 1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
* 1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
* 1 1/2 teaspoons coarse salt
* 1 1/4 cups unsalted butter (2 1/2  sticks)
* 1 1/4 cups light brown sugar (10 ounces)
* 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar (8 ounces)
* 2 large eggs
* 2 teaspoons natural vanilla extract
* 1 1/4 pounds bittersweet chocolate disks or fèves, at least 60
  percent cacao content (see note) 
* Sea salt

Preparation
 
Step 1

Sift flours, baking soda, baking powder and salt into a bowl. Set
aside.

Step 2

Using a mixer fitted with paddle attachment, cream butter and sugars
together until very light, about 5 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time,
mixing well after each addition. Stir in the vanilla. Reduce speed to
low, add dry ingredients and mix until just combined, 5 to 10
seconds. Drop chocolate pieces in and incorporate them without
breaking them. Press plastic wrap against dough and refrigerate for 24
to 36 hours. Dough may be used in batches, and can be refrigerated for
up to 72 hours.

Step 3

When ready to bake, preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet
with parchment paper or a nonstick baking mat. Set aside.

Step 4

Scoop 6 3 1/2-ounce mounds of dough (the size of generous golf balls)
onto baking sheet, making sure to turn horizontally any chocolate
pieces that are poking up; it will make for a more attractive
cookie. Sprinkle lightly with sea salt and bake until golden brown but
still soft, 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer sheet to a wire rack for 10
minutes, then slip cookies onto another rack to cool a bit
more. Repeat with remaining dough, or reserve dough, refrigerated, for
baking remaining batches the next day. Eat warm, with a big napkin.

Tip

Disks are sold at Jacques Torres Chocolate; Valrhona fèves,
oval-shaped chocolate pieces, are at Whole Foods.


Double Chocolate Chip Cookies

https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1018459-double-chocolate-chip-cookies

Yield: 9 to 10 big cookies

Ingredients

* 1 cup/145 grams all-purpose flour
* 3/4 cup/75 grams Dutch-process cocoa powder
* 3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
* 1/2 teaspoon baking powder
* 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
* 10 tablespoons/141 grams unsalted butter, at room temperature
* 3/4 cup/150 grams dark brown sugar
* 2/3 cup/133 grams granulated sugar
* 1 large egg
* 2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
* 2 cups/305 grams semisweet or bittersweet chocolate discs (or use 2
  cups/340 grams chocolate chips)

Step 1

In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, cocoa powder, salt, baking
powder and baking soda. Set aside.

Step 2

In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together
butter, brown sugar and granulated sugar until very light, about 5
minutes. Add egg and vanilla and beat until well combined.

Step 3

With the mixer on low, add the dry ingredients and beat just until
combined. Add the chocolate discs and mix briefly to combine. Press
plastic wrap against the dough and chill it for at least 24 hours and
up to 36.

Step 4

Heat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment
paper. Portion the dough out into balls slightly larger than golf
balls, about 3 1/2 ounces each, and transfer five balls to the baking
sheet. (They will spread significantly.) Bake the cookies until set,
being careful to remove cookies from the oven when still soft in the
center, about 18 minutes. Transfer the parchment with the cookies to a
rack to cool. Repeat with the remaining dough, baking a second batch
of four or five cookies. Serve warm.

Supersized, Supersoft Chocolate Chip Cookies

https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/supersized-super-soft-chocolate-chip-cookies-recipe

Yield: 16-17 large (4") cookies or 28 medium (3") cookies

INGREDIENTS

* 2 cups (426g) light brown sugar, packed
* 2 teaspoons table salt
* 16 tablespoons (226g) unsalted butter, cut into 1" pieces
* 1/2 cup (113g) milk, whole preferred
* 2 3/4 cups (330g) King Arthur Unbleached Bread Flour, divided
* 2 large eggs, cold from the refrigerator
* 1 tablespoon King Arthur Pure Vanilla Extract
* 1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
* 1/4 teaspoon baking soda
* 2 cups (340g) semisweet chocolate, preferably 60% to 65% cocoa content*

* Use chopped wafers or bars for best results; if using chocolate
  chips, chop them roughly before incorporating.

PREPARATION

Step 1

In a large bowl, combine the brown sugar and salt. Set aside.

Step 2

To brown the butter: In a saucepan over medium-high heat, melt the
butter. After several minutes, the butter will sizzle and may
spatter. Continue to cook the butter, swirling the pan regularly, for
about 5 to 7 minutes, until it’s a dark golden brown color and brown
bits start collecting at the bottom of the pan; the butter will have
stopped sizzling and may also have a layer of foam on the surface.

Step 3

Once the butter is browned, immediately pour it over the sugar mixture
(be sure to scrape out the brown bits at the bottom) and whisk
vigorously to combine; this helps dissolve the sugar slightly and
creates the shiny surface of the baked cookies. (The mixture will stay
lumpy and won't become smooth at this point.) Set the empty saucepan
aside to cool slightly.

Step 4

To make the tangzhong: In the same saucepan used to brown the butter,
combine the milk with 3 tablespoons (23g) of the bread flour and whisk
until no lumps remain.

Step 5

Place the saucepan over low heat and cook the mixture, stirring
regularly with a whisk and then a flexible spatula, until it’s
thickened, paste-like, and starts to come together into one mass,
about 2 to 3 minutes.

Step 6

Remove from the heat and transfer directly to the bowl with the butter
and sugar. Whisk until mostly smooth; some lumps of the tangzhong
mixture are OK.

Step 7

Add the eggs and vanilla and continue whisking until smooth.

Step 8

Weigh or measure the remaining 2 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon (307g)
bread flour by gently spooning it into a cup, then sweeping off any
excess. Add the bread flour to the bowl with the butter and sugar,
then add the baking powder and baking soda. Using a whisk or flexible
spatula, stir until well combined and no dry spots remain.

Step 8

Place the bowl, uncovered, in the refrigerator and allow it to cool
for 10 to 15 minutes.

Step 10

While the batter is cooling, use a serrated knife to roughly chop the
chocolate into coarse pieces. Avoid chopping the chocolate too fine,
as small pieces will melt when mixed into the dough.

Step 11

Remove the dough from the refrigerator and fold in the chopped
chocolate. Cover the bowl and return to the refrigerator for 24 to 72
hours to allow the flavors to intensify.

Step 12

To bake the cookies: When you’re ready to bake, remove the chilled
cookie dough from the refrigerator and let it rest at room temperature
for about 10 to 15 minutes to allow it to warm up slightly. Meanwhile,
preheat the oven to 350°F with a rack in the center.

Step 13

Scoop the dough into 85g to 90g portions; a level scone and muffin
scoop works well here. If you’re scooping by hand, the mounds of dough
should be about 2 1/4" in diameter. To make smaller cookies (that are
still generous in size), scoop the dough into 50g portions using a
jumbo cookie scoop.

Step 14

Arrange the scooped cookie dough on parchment-lined baking sheets,
spacing them 3" to 4" apart. (Five dough balls fit perfectly on a
half-sheet pan. The 90g cookies can be arranged in a 2-1-2 pattern;
the 50g cookies can be arranged in a slightly staggered 4 x 2
pattern.) For consistently shaped cookies, roll each piece of dough
into a smooth ball before baking.

Step 15

Bake the large (90g) chocolate chip cookies for 18 to 22 minutes or
the smaller (50g) cookies for 15 to 18 minutes, until the edges are
set and the cookies are browned, rotating the pan halfway through
baking to ensure even browning. (For best results, bake one pan of
cookies at a time.) Remove the cookies from the oven and let them rest
on the baking sheets until cool enough to handle, at least 15 minutes.

Step 16

Storage information: Store leftover chocolate chip cookies, covered,
for up to 5 days; their slightly crispy edges will soften and the
cookies will maintain a soft texture. Freeze baked cookies for longer
storage.

TIPS FROM OUR BAKERS

* To avoid scooping chilled (relatively hard) cookie dough: Scoop the
  dough after about 1 to 2 hours of chilling (step 11) and then return
  to the refrigerator to continue chilling for 24 to 72 hours. Follow
  the recipe as otherwise written.

* For a more complex, less sweet flavor: Replace up to 1 cup (170g)
  semisweet chocolate with bittersweet chocolate (between 70% to 75%
  cocoa content).

* To bake immediately (no overnight rest): Prepare the recipe as
  written through chopping the chocolate (step 10). Prepare a 9" x 13"
  pan with a parchment paper sling; lightly grease the shorter,
  exposed sides of the pan with nonstick spray. Fold in the chopped
  chocolate, and then immediately transfer the batter to the prepared
  pan. Spread the batter evenly in the pan. Bake at 350°F for 34 to 38
  minutes, until well-browned and set. A toothpick or thin knife
  inserted into the center should come out with some moist crumbs but
  no raw batter. Cool the cookie bars completely before using the
  sling to remove them from the pan and slicing.

* Scooped cookie dough can be also stored in the freezer (after step
  13). Bake frozen cookie dough until the edges are set and the
  cookies are browned, about 22 to 24 minutes. These cookies will
  spread slightly less than cookie dough that was baked after a
  24-hour rest in the refrigerator, but they’ll still have their
  signature shiny appearance, soft texture, and caramelized flavor.

